# Changelog

## [0.1.7]
### Added
 - log

## [0.1.6]
### Added
 - Used ```dataclass``` to organize input variables of plotting functions.
 - Added ```Tensor``` semantic alias and ```as_Tensor``` to verify the input.
### Changed
 - Changed ```Vect3D``` into ```Vect(3)```. The new semantic alias could be used to verify vectors beyond 3D, for example, ```fig_size```.   
 - Re-organized the attribute names of some classes. Now they follow the prefix conventions as below:  
   - `opts_`:  
     User-configurable options (parameters that users are expected to modify).  
   - `_opts_`:  
     Internal options (parameters derived or managed internally, not meant to be modified directly).  
   - `_calc_`:  
     Computed values (attributes calculated from other properties, read-only).  
   - `_data_`:  
     Raw or generated data stored by the object (should not be modified directly).  
   - `act_`:  
     (Function) Action helpers (methods or attributes used to control behaviors such as hiding).  
   - `_state_`:  
     Boolean flags indicating object state (e.g., whether smoothing has been applied).  
   - `_label_`:  
     Tags or markers assigned when the object is created (e.g., whether processed, source of data).
   - `log_`:  
     (Function) To pring or generate log files of some information. 
   - `_internal_`:  
     Internal implementation details or temporary workspaces (do not touch).

## [0.1.5]
### Added
 - Added ```SceneWrapper```. Now we could modify the scene of a figure after it is plotted.
 ### Fixed
 - Fixed the bug of pltting new things onto the previous figure. In the previous version, the newly added things could not be achived by ```figure.objects```.

## [0.1.4]
### Added
 - Now ```PlotnPlane``` could be modified after it is plotted.
 - Now the directors from bulk and near defects have different opacity in ```PlotPlaneGrid```.
### Fixed
 - Fixed the bug of disconnections between head and tail while plotting a disclination loops
 - Fixed the bug of modification of ```colors``` and ```opacity``` for the figure.

## [0.1.3]
### Added
 - Added ```n_color_immerse()``` to color directors with immersion from RP^2 to R^3 (boys's surface).
 - Added ```is_norm``` flag into ```Check_Sn``` to normalized directors.
### Changed
 - Replaced ```QField``` type alias in ```datatypes.py``` with a more explicit ```Union[QField5, QField9]``` for clearer type annotations.
 - Replaced ```colors``` from np.ndarray to a callable functions or a uniform value to color directors in ```PlotnPlane```. Since directors are generated by ```PlotPlaneGrid```, it is probably impossible to manually set color for each director. Set the default function as ```n_color_immerse()```.
  - Performed the similar change to ```opacity```

## [0.1.2]
### Added
 - Added ```PlotPlaneGrid``` for creating a grid plane to visualize quantities.
 - Added ```PlotnPlane``` for visualizing director fields on a plane.

## [0.1.1]
### Added
 - Added ```as_Vect3D()``` and ```as_ColorRGB()``` in ```datatypes.py``` to validate input data.
 - Added smoothing functionality for both ends of disclination lines of type ```cross``` types.
 ### Fixed
- Fixed bugs in `as_QField5()` and `as_QField9()`.

## [0.1.0] 2025-08-13
 - Initial release.
